Hello everyone. Welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lops, and
today I'm joined for a second time by the
lovely Nina Hartley. If you haven't watched our first
interview, I'm going to leave a link to it
in the description. Please go and watch it. It's
awesome. And today we're going to talk a little
bit more about feminism, non-monogamy, intimacy, and we're going
to address a few comments that people left in
our first interview.
Fantastic. Oh fantastic.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, no, you, you asked me
to do that, and I think it's important because
I think that those people specifically uh interpreted things
wrong too, so, you know, we'll, we'll get into
it. So, I mean, let, let me first ask
you, I, I'm, I mean, I really want to
ask you about this because I'm just uh extremely
curious about it because You were there back in
the 70s during the sexual revolution in the US,
right?
So, yes, but I was a young teenager, so
I was watching it. I wasn't doing it. I
was, I was reading about it, seeing it in
the media, reading the new books about sex and
sexuality, um, new theories, ideas about relationships and the
role of pleasure and the, and the rights of
women to sexual autonomy, but I wasn't doing anything
with it.
OK,
but, but I didn't start, I didn't become sexually
active until 1977 at age 18, so I was
a late bloomer, um, because plenty of my friends
were having sex. I just wasn't one of them.
OK, but, but still, was, what was it like
living through that period and particularly, how have you
seen things evolving when it comes to women's rights,
women's ability to express themselves sexually, and those kinds
of things since then, since the 70s.
So, um, in the beginning, it was very, very
hopeful. So we had Roe versus Wade, uh. So
don't forget, it was only in the middle 70s
that women could get birth control without being married.
Women could get credit in their own name, they
could open a bank account in their own name.
They could wear trousers to work, right? Um SO,
uh, and the, so it went the same time
with the civil rights movement, environmental movement, gay rights
movement, anti-war movement, and then women's movement. So it
was all a big time of hopeful change, um,
after the assassinations of JFK and Bobby Kennedy and
Malcolm and Martin, um, the country was just split
open. It was, it was, uh, The, the veil
had been ripped off of America, shiny, happy, everybody's
free. And we know, of course, that's not true.
Still to this day, it's not true. Um, BUT
it was very hopeful. So when I was 14
years old, women got the right to abortion, and
I knew in my soul, utterly critical for women
to be equal with men. IS to be able
to control fertility. But as soon as all that
happened, what we now know as the, um, well,
the right, the conservatives, um, Really just said, oh
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So,
the, the I'm lefty, so the left, you know,
we got rid of Nixon, we got out of
Vietnam, party woo woo, and the conservatives who don't
have the same Prioritizing of hedonism and pleasure and
sex and peace and love, said, OK, uh, in
the English saying, hold my beer. And so for
the last 60 years, they've been as soon as,
as soon as the Civil rights, uh, Voting Rights
Act was passed in 1965, the right wing said,
oh no, and they've been working to undermine it
ever since, and they have finally succeeded. They succeeded
in rolling back what we thought were our bodily
rights for birth control and abortion, and they have
clawed back the rights of minority people to be
represented in Congress. And they're open about it. Trump,
Trump, the election of Trump two times took the
band-aid off. We could no longer pretend, oh no,
it's just a few people, 77 million Americans. Voted
for this mincompoop, you know, and, um, and so
they're open in the racism, they're open to sexism.
So fast forward 50 years, on the one hand,
we have, uh, young women, uh, Turning down dating,
so young women are buying homes more than young
men. They are happy being, uh, single. They, they
have peace and they don't have to worry about
violence. Um, I think, and on the other hand,
so on the one hand, women know we have
the right to say no. On the other hand
with the red pill manosphere people saying no can
get you killed. Women are killed every day for
saying, I don't want to give you my number.
No, I'm not interested in you. So the backlash
against women's freedom has been ongoing for 60 years.
Um, AND now we have two really big camps,
right? The so-called red pill camp, which, you know,
women are good for only one thing and you,
and, and, and they shut up, and I want
an obedient wife and then the right, the religious
right-wing family voting, um, so they're doing everything. And
it's it's a very good poster says that of
course they have to cheat because they can't win
any other way because For feeling human people, the,
the Actions of the political right wing in this
country are horrific, um, separating families, putting kids in
cages, abducting people off the street, killing, killing people
on the street, and it's so I'm, and I'm
not a political analyst. I just know that what
the, what is going on. Um, ON the one
hand, yes, more women are having, uh, careers and
on OnlyFans or being. With the rise of social
media and that everyone gets to be a brand,
so a woman gets to decide what brand am
I. So lifestyle, homemaking, babies, fitness, cooking, and some
of them, of course, going to do about sex.
It is unfortunate that they don't get to think
about it a little more clearly because people think,
oh, sex is easy, uh, uh, sex work is
easy. Those women are stupid. They're all abused. Um,
WHATEVER stories people have about women who do adult
entertainment of any kind, you know, some foot pictures
to, oh my goodness, I didn't know that could
fit there. So the whole range of behavior. Yeah.
More women are realizing, wow, it's a difficult job.
It's hard to get traction, it's hard to get
known. And for a person who is not themselves
already, Uh, kinky, sexually alternative, open-minded, being in the
sex industry is very damaging to your spirit. So,
if a person holds any old ideas, sinful, dirty,
whore, pig, dog, degraded, And you, you, you believe
those things in your soul and you do the
work anyway, it has a very bad effect on
your spirit, very bad effect on you psychologically. Or,
or perhaps even if you're just someone who has
psychological traits that do not really fit with being
a sex worker
or or or being an entertainer. People think, you
know, oh, let's go online, I'll show myself, but
you are giving of yourself, and if you don't,
if it's not coming from a healthy place in
you, it's going to drain you. The, the, you
know, 42 years. Whoa, how are you still here?
Because the subject that I deal with sex, sexuality,
sexual expression, relationships is me. I am bisexual. I
am not monogamous. I am kinky. I am exhibitionistic.
So I, I like the aspect of the camera.
If a person's basically shy, but thinking they're going
to do. Some sex because it's easy money, they're
hurting themselves. So for some people, being in a
being an entertainer is, is good for them. It's
fun. It's fantastic. And for a smaller group of
people, being a sexual entertainer is good for them.
And for an even smaller percentage, being a sexually
pornographic entertainer is good for them. Most people in
our culture have very conflicting ideas about sex, sexuality,
sexual expression, the role of men, the role of
women, good, bad, sin, evil. So if a person
is not really clear in their heart, what are
my values around sex. Entertainment, cameras, right? I'm going
to be confused here. I'm going to say things,
yes to things I don't like. I'm going to
feel bad about myself. And it, and it goes
forward. So, um, for me, I make it look
easy because for me, it is easy. I like
the work. I like the bodies. I like the
camera. I like not knowing who you are. I
like not having to be in a relationship with
you. That works for me. So, my spirit is
elevated by my job. So, um, I see. So
we're talking about the male loneliness epidemic and the
fact that more young men want to be married
with and have kids than women want to marry
and have kids,
because yeah, let me ask you about that, but
let me add just a few more points to
it. I mean, what do you make of all
of these, I mean, broad spectrum of things that
are sort of Of happening at the same time,
which includes the male loneliness epidemic and it affects
also some women, of course it's not 100% it's
not that 100% of the people affected by it
are exclusively men, but and what do you make
of the fact that at least according to recent
data that that we have From different sources, it
seems like young people, particularly more so people from
Gen Z onward, uh, are having less sex, more
people are reporting not having had sex for the
past year. More people are single, more people are
not interested in getting married or having children. Uh,
uh, HOW do you look at all of that?
I mean, because, and don't get me wrong, what
I'm about to say next is not because I'm
an asexual person or I think that people can
just do away with the sexual aspect of their
lives. I mean, I, I don't think that at
all, but, uh, I mean, could there be space
in all of that data. I think for some
of it just being people adapting to new societal
circumstances and perhaps some of them not putting so
much emphasis on sex, on relationships, and so on.
I mean. What I'm asking is, do you think
that there's any chance at all that at least
a small percentage of those people that are not
having sex, not in relationships, and so on, uh,
it's not because there's something pathological about it, but
it's just because they're finding out that perhaps it's
not that important for them.
That's a really good question. So, up until recently,
um, it's only in the last feminists have been
talking about the labor inequality in the home for
heterosexual married couples now for 50 years. The second
called the second shift, just, it's so much data.
So each partner works outside the home 40 weeks.
The traditionally, the male partner comes home and sits
on the couch and doesn't do anything. She comes
home. You know, childcare, bedtime routine, are the kids
packed lunch packed for tomorrow? Do they have all
the school papers, they signed the note for the
teacher. So the, it's called the second shift and
still to this day, even with 50 years of
feminism, um, for millennial couples in down who are
in a relationship, there is more parity. Again, there
is the traditional, um, red pill folk who think
that's all women's work. I would never change a
diaper. And then there's a new age, um, the
new younger millennial husbands who are very much involved,
and I love seeing that. So you go online,
you look for, you know, red flag dad or
red flag husband, and then, and then green flag
dad and green flag husband, you can see the
two different camps of masculinity, what, so it used
to be what could be considered masculine. I make
the money, I don't cheat, I don't beat, that's
all I have to do. I'm home for dinner.
I'm a good husband. And so what makes a
good husband now is changing as more and more
generations of women wake up and realize, oh my
God. I'm not signing up for taking care of
a 3rd child, one of whom happens to be
30 years old, right? So, um, women, Even those
who are not, you know, classically educated in feminism
are realizing the balance of labor and traditional marriage
is very, very unfair. It burdens the woman, she's
responsible for the emotional labor, the household labor, the
childcare labor, the scheduling labor, um, she knows the
names of the teachers and when the doctor's appointments,
and all the things, and the guy's like, what?
I don't, what? And many men still say, that's
OK. What's the problem? I don't beat, I don't
cheat, I bring home my, I don't gamble, I
bring home my paycheck. That's what I'm supposed to
do. So, women are going, I'm not signing up
for that anymore. I don't have it in me.
You know, and then so that's, that's just a
personal thing. Then of course, socially, our country talks
a good, America talks a good game about families
and motherhood and we do nothing, less than nothing
to support that. No paid maternal leave, no national
childcare policy, um, uh, childcare takes up like $1000
per child per month. So, you have 2 kids,
that can be more than your mortgage. So it's
just, it's crazy. The family units have broken down,
so aunties and grandmas are no longer around. And
now I'm hearing from, I'm hearing about, not from,
about young people whose parents, apparently a lot of
boomer parents are not interested in babysitting, and Gen
X parents don't want to be around their grandkids.
That's new. When I was coming up, my, I,
my stay with my grandmother all the time to
give my parents a break. So, Family dynamics is
shifting. The balance of labor within the family is
remaining the same, people are fighting for who's going
to do what. And for a lot of young
people, it's like, I don't want any of it
too complicated. On top of that, you, um, Uh,
have, uh, emotional immaturity and, uh, lack of self-regulation.
So, again, you know, stand up for yourself, just
say no. OK, if I say no, he's going
to smash my face, he's going to punch me
in the head, he's going to follow me to
my car and rape me, he's going to kill
me, what? So, for women, it's a great deal
of sensation of unsafety with men. So, so I'm
not heterosexual, and I'm not monogamous. So, for me,
I can always figure out how am I'm going
to relate to a person. I can barely I,
I'm trying to imagine, I'm a heterosexual monogamous woman
and I want a male partner. And what I
see online is that the, the pool of men
is for these women very Not adequate, right? Um,
THE men, the men, they talk about, um, Some
of this very performative, uh, compassion. So, again, I'm
not in the dating pool. I'm not trying to
date. I'm twice divorced. So I, all this is
secondhand knowledge for me. I read in the paper,
I look on the, you know, there's some young
women posters that I follow. They're talking about their
experience in the world. So, um, All the rules
are changing, and I don't know who said it
first, it's not me, but men are having a
very difficult time with the changing expectations of what
is expected within a relationship with a woman. Um,
SO, uh, someone said, when you're used to privilege,
equality feels like oppression. So, um, and It is
tied to whiteness and it is tied to male
privilege. Don't forget, um, uh, Western Western civilization is
patriarchal, white supremacist, white supremacists and male privilege. The
system has been built for white men. It's explicit,
you know, women were not mentioned in the, in
the Constitution, women were not mentioned in the Bill
of Rights. Um, uh, uh, BLACK people were 3/5
of, I mean just, it's just the, the, the
history, and, and Um, systemic oppression of people based
on race and sex and class is ongoing, and
you don't just break up 4 100 years of
culture because some people are shaking their fist. And
then we have this particular president backed by the
Heritage Foundation and the Project 2025 people who are
actively pushing back abortion rights, pushing back birth control
rights, um, trying to, now, you know, if I
said, and I'm in Texas, and I think you
helped. A neighbor get to California for an abortion,
I can bring charges against you for helping. So
it's turning in, it's, it's trying to turn us
into a police state. It's trying to turn us
into East Germany, where everybody was being surveilled by
everybody. You didn't know. So he's trying to be
authoritarian. He is trying to put fear in people.
It's also trying to exhaust people. Because the every
day a new outrage, every day 10 new outrages,
you know, um, I wake up and the East
Wing of the White House is gone. What the
fuck? Just, so he, he's bulldozing over every norm,
bulldozing all the, all the guardrails, and I'll never
get past the fact that Hillary Clinton was a
very flawed candidate. Of course, but for me it
was about the courts. Hold your nose and vote
for the person because the courts, and so now,
how are you liking it now? How are you
liking it now? The Supreme Court is, is going
to be the way that it is now for
the rest of my lifetime because I don't know
what is to be done except vote, organize, donate
to, to people who are doing the door to
door organizing. So, I live in California, it's a
reliably blue state, but I can send money to
Louisiana, right? Um, I
But, but you, but you know, but you know
what you were talking about, um, because I also
asked you about, uh, women's sexuality, and it came
to my mind that when you were
talking about they're much happier alone. So women said,
so, so now on the other hand, there's a
whole huge pleasure culture. You go on Instagram and
there's all kinds of feeds about positions and things
to do and toys. So that's very out in
the open. And so women are, you know what,
I'm gonna go home. I'm going to masturbate in
my peaceful, clean bedroom, and I'm going to go
to sleep with my cat, and I'm gonna wake
up to a clean kitchen and no dirty clothes
on the floor. I'm, I'm good. I'm good. Cause
how many women, young women are Refugees from abusive
narcissistic relationships and they're realizing, wow, I don't need
a man. I have a job. I have women
are getting uh college educated more than men. They
are entering the professional workforce more than men, which
is why the Heritage Foundation. Openly says we need
to discourage women from entering professions. So, at least
the mask is off and they're not even pretending
anymore to be fair and equal. And of course,
women should have all the opportunities. No, they want
women trapped in marriage, they want to get rid
of no fault divorce. Which keeps women trapped in
abusive situations because they're the ones that have a
harder time leaving. Um, YES, women can be abusive
to men, absolutely, but I think it's still like
85% of domestic violence is carried out by men
against women, and so I, I don't know the
exact, it's just very, very largely still. A male
and female situation when it comes to domestic violence.
And so, yeah, but,
but one thing that I was going to say
which is very ironic coming from feminists who are
against sex work and sex workers is that they
don't see, they don't notice the fact that many
times. For example, push for legislation that tries to
criminalize or penalize sex work in some way, like,
for example, increasing taxes for only fan creators and
trying to criminalize prostitution and things like that. They
they don't notice that by aligning themselves with people
who are inherently against sex work, which tend to
be conservative and far right people, that being against
sex work is part of a package of that
comes with violations of female reproductive rights and includes
anti-abortion stances, includes, I mean, making. It harder for
women to have access to birth control, to Planned
Parenthood, to sex education, and all of that. And
I mean, at the end of the day they
think that, oh yeah, we don't like these sex
workers because they disgust us or something like that.
But actually if you look at it from a
broader perspective, it's actually an attack against all women.
Oh yeah, absolutely, it's been talked about a lot,
so. Um, BEFORE there's a rhetoric. God says this,
feminist who says that before this rhetoric, there's a,
there's a feeling. So if I'm Christian, I can
say, oh God, you disgusting slut. Oh, you are
a sinning whore against the, the, the beauty and,
and sanctity of motherhood, right? And then feminists have
the same thing, but oh, you're capitulating to patriarchy
and you're just a, a, a house servant for,
for the patriarchy. So sex negativity. Comes before ideology.
The idea, the feeling in your body that it's
sex is bad, pleasure is bad, it's dangerous, it's
wrong, it has to be here for these purposes.
That's a very rigid way of thinking. So people
who have very rigid ways of thinking, they will
naturally gravitate toward very extreme, uh, black and white
thinking. Uh, PHILOSOPHY, politics, rhetoric, because it fits, you
know, right, wrong, and I'm on this line, you're
on that line. So it's the same thing as
the Madonna whore. So, so with the Madonna whore,
it's,
the Madonna whore complex,
right? So, so that comes up on the, on
the religious side. But so because women are not
people, they are objects, they are symbols. So there's
a pure virgin mother who we do not protect
most. Woman's sex abuse happens in the home by
clergy, by uh youth pastors, so it, it is,
it is not strange. Most sexual assault is not
from strangers, it's from people known to the woman
and sometimes it's people who they thought were friends,
they really thought they've done their due diligence. They
thought they had really found a nice friend. So
for a lot of women, he was perfectly nice
until he wasn't nice. And so in with women
that's a very great deal of mistrust and, and
also self mistrust. Do I, how do I trust
my perceptions? I really thought I had done due
diligence to vet this guy to let him into
my life as a friend, not even a boyfriend,
and now this happens. So, um, the So, I've
always known in my spirit that the energy coming
from the religious anti-sex people and the feminist anti-sex
people, it's the same energy. It is bitter and
close and, and punitive and mean-spirited, and they just
picked this language to justify, so they have the
feeling, they express it, and they use the Their
theories to justify why they don't have to examine
their beliefs. They don't have to change them, modify
them, or go to therapy, because clearly, you're hurting
inside because hurt people hurt people. And so they'll
hurt them through words, they'll hurt them through laws,
they'll hurt them through fist, but It is for
me just an expression of deeply unregulated and unhealed
pain and trauma, um, using the rhetoric of feminist
radical feminism or religion as a cover. Well, of
course, because So, they're, they do not self-reflect and
they do not look inward for why am I
like this. They think they're perfectly fine. They think
they're reasonable. They think they're completely rational and I'm
the crazy one, you're the crazy one. So, I
think more women are discovering the joys and pleasures
of masturbation. It's a good thing from the 70s.
My body is mine. I don't have to share
it with you. I don't have to find a
boyfriend. I'm fine. I, I, again, my home is
peaceful and clean. My, you know, and I don't
come home to chaos. I don't come home to
fear. I don't come home to expectation, I don't
come home to resentment. So, Uh, the red pill
guys say 80% of men, women want 20% of
men, they want 6 pack, 6 ft, 6 figure,
and no, we want peace. We want peace. You're
not competing against other men, you're competing against her
peace that she has given for herself. Women now
understand because we don't need a man just to
live. Again, before we could get credit, before we
could be employed, we had to have a man,
um, uh, in order to live. To not be
on the street or live with our parents until
we're dead. So now that that's no longer the
case for a lot of women, which really pisses
off the traditional folk. They don't want women independent.
They want women dependent on men because, uh, that's
what men have now, so now, man has to
act right to have a woman. He no longer
just gets to have one, right? Um, SO, uh,
the red pill folk. Capitalize on the anger and
isolation and confusion of young men and make money
on it, but it doesn't help them. And so
the men who are successfully mating, again, go look
at red flag husband, red flag, a green flag
husband, green flag boyfriend content. There are men out
there who are, who are successfully, happily mating with
women and having those families, but then the red
pills called, oh, you're a simp. Oh, you're a
simp for women. Do you want a woman to
willingly be with you or not? And it's not
even, so it's not even the red pill guys
that, so, OK, fine. You are, you don't have
the skills to have a relationship, so you can
hire a professional person. Oh, I would never know,
they're, they're, they're sluts and whores and dirty. I
would never do that. Ah, God, and the whole
obsession with body count. Some of these, you know,
I, I don't know if it's rage baiting, but
some of the, you know, the whole body count
thing, once a hoe, always a hoe. Um, AND
it's, so men were mad that women were sluts,
and now they're mad that women are celibate. Only
because they themselves personally have not yet developed the
interpersonal skills and the intrapersonal skills to be able
to be in a Consensual relationship with an adult
woman. And they don't, they don't have the skills
and they don't want to develop the skills. They
want to just be angry all the time.
Yeah, no, but, but let me just say, because
that, that bit is very funny because it came
to mind that a few years ago, I think
that's probably 2021 or 2022, at a certain point
I made a joke on Facebook saying, yeah, for,
for the old people, I mean whatever young people
do with their sexual life, they're never right because
If they're having lots of sex, it's because they
are degenerate. If they're not having enough sex, it's
because that's also wrong. So and because they're not
having enough babies or marrying, so it's always a
problem. They are, they, they are never having the
correct amount of sex.
And, and also it's very, uh, there's a joke,
uh, a Puritan is a person who is afraid
that somewhere someone might be having a good time.
So it is partly our, our country was founded
um by religious fanatics who wanted to come over
here and create their own version of um uh
a monotheistic Christian. Uh, IDENTITY, and very, very, very
anti-female, very anti-pleasure, very, uh, you know, uh, on,
on one hand, um, but if you look at
the birth records, I think like 25% of babies
were born less than 9 months after the wedding.
Back in the 1600s, right? So, people have always
behaved badly. When it comes to what the sex
norm is, that's never, that's never going to change.
Um, THERE'S a really great book, um, A great
book, uh.
Oh, by
the
way, uh, while you search for it, have you
actually read that book that I recommended you, Quil
Cula's Sex Beyond S? Have you had time?
I'm, I, I.
Uh, YOU forgot that.
I have not. Uh,
OK, OK, no, no worries, we will leave that
for another
time. I will, um, send it to me again.
I will, I'm so sorry. I, I, I thought,
was I supposed to, I think earlier I was
thinking, was I supposed to read something before today?
I'm, I'm, I apologize. So this book, um, uh,
is a great history of how far back this
thinking goes and how far back anti-woman sentiment has
gone. So, we, so I'm not surprised where we
find ourselves because we've had, again, 5000 or more
years of culture that denigrate women, denigrate women's knowledge,
denigrate women's bodies, right? Um, UP until very recently,
we were property of our husbands, right? So we
were up until, well, certainly until the, uh, 22nd,
the 19th Amendment, um, giving women, white women the
right to vote. Um, WOMEN were, were basically property
of their husbands, so it's not very, so after
thousands of years, we've had barely 50 years of
women trying to become equal citizens under the law
and the forces that are against that push back
very, very, are pushing back greatly and aided by
our president and his. Aided by by the president
and his enablers, his sy his sycophants and ass
kissers, um, and they're all, and some of them
are closeted gay. I mean, there's a joke, um,
Republican women want to marry a straight man and
end up marrying gay men. Democrat women want to
marry a gay man and end up with straight
men. So, as, as a big joke, and the
big joke, of course, is at any Republican situation,
Grindr crashes. So Grindr is the gay sex hookup
app, right? And so, um,
Yeah, you know, it's funny because these people that
are homophobic, transphobic, and they say they want to
protect children are actually the ones that are watching
gay porn, trans porn on the internet. And
and raping and raping children,
yeah, yeah, they are, they are the pedophiles,
so yeah, yeah, so we know the hypocrites, we
know this, um, so what do we, what can
we do, uh. First, I, I did, again, I
did not come up with this idea, but in
They want us to be exhausted. They want us
to be tired. They want us to not care.
They want us to go, I can't. We can't
do that because we will, we will, we will
be overtaken. And so, in those kinds of moments,
deliberately finding joy and pleasure in our bodies is
revolutionary. Again, I'm not the first one to say
this, cultivating joy in times of reaction, reactionary politics
is an act of, of resistance and revolution because
at some point in the day, you are alone
with your own body, the bathroom, the bedroom, and
Deciding in that moment when you're alone, you're not
hurting anybody else. I'm going to be nice to
myself. I'm going to say nice things about my
body. I'm going to touch it nicely. I'm going
to give it pleasure. I'm going to move it.
I'm going to feed it healthier foods. I'm going
to touch my erogenous zones and, and have orgasm.
And know that because you live in here, I
live in here. And so, the culture makes it
very difficult for a person to inhabit their body.
We either kick them out of the, kick, we
kick them out of the body, drag them out
of the body and deny them the key, or
we trap them in the body and deny them
the front door. So, most people in a room
all by themselves cannot be calm. They cannot be
in their body. Because they're afraid of it, it
has betrayed them, it has been taken from them,
it has been harmed by other people. They have
been kept ignorant of what it can do and,
and all the things, and so they're not at
home in themselves. And when you're not at home
here, you can be You can be, uh, swayed
by anything, right? Because people want belonging, they want
meaning, they want connection, they want closeness. That's just
human-animal, we're social creatures, right? Even if we're asexual
and a romantic, we don't need a relationship. We
still need people and closeness and to belong to
a group. We need people who we believe love
us and appreciate who we are. Um, AND that's
why people join cults, that's why people join extreme
groups because it gives you a purpose and a
mission and, and, and, and an instant family and
friends, and the more, the more lonely a person
is, the more susceptible they are to being snatched
by a cult. Um, AND there's lots of information
out there on that, um. The best one. Yeah,
but, but you know it's very sad because in
the sort of socioeconomic and political circumstances we live
in and have lived in for the past 40
odd years since the rise of neoliberal capitalism, I
mean, it's becoming more and more complicated to stay
healthy even because I mean people don't have time.
To cook, people barely have any leisure time. People
are sleep deprived, yeah, or money. People are sleep
deprived. People don't eat healthy because also because sometimes
they live in what we call food deserts, right?
And, and so, and they are heavily medicated most
of the time as well. So, and also I
mentioned. NEOLIBERAL capitalism because another source of community that
people had before and don't really have now is
also trade unions, and I mean people are feeling
more and more atomized and with loneliness and all
of that. I mean it's very, very hard for
people to find the joy that you were referring
to.
100%. So um. At the height of the middle
class, um, in the 50s, uh, trade union membership
was highest and the tax rate on the millionaires
was also very high. And except for that, so
that worked well. The, the racism, sexism, that was
still very fucked up. It still is, but at
least, um, but again, in many labor histories talk
about this, the powers that be use racism to
keep workers from banding together. Again, white supremacy takes
care of everything. It's like, so instead of poor
blacks and poor whites after the Civil War going,
hey, the whites said, hey, you know, at least
you're not one of them. So then we get,
you know, Jim Crow and the poorest, basest, most
ignorant Caucasian person felt the right and had the
right to Treat black to treat black people however
they wanted, no matter how. Educated and professional and
all, so, so, achievement with no protection against um
persecution and violence and death. Um, SO, I don't
That is this country's original sin, of course, is
chattel slavery and then everything that comes from that,
right? Uh, SO the white supremacy and the Jim
Crow and, and all the things and we're, and
we're dealing with it today. Um. Well, we're dealing
with, I don't know how we're ever going to
get past it because it went on for a
very long time and this country is not very
old, right? Um, SO for half the country, I
mean for half the, what the Civil War has
only been gone 1260 years, right? And the country
is 250 years old. So for over half the
country, for, for over half of the time of
white people in America. We had the institution of
chattel slavery and we're never going, we're never going
to get past that, and that bleeds, bleeds that
into everything. So, cause there's, there's your experience of
sexism and then there's a sexism experienced by black
women versus the sexism experienced by white women. So
even though the, uh, you know, white women absolutely
voted Donald Trump in because they were voting race
privilege and um align themselves closer to power and
not align themselves with other women. Because whiteness as
an identity is very, very. Deep, very fragile. People
get, you know, white fragility, the term for it
called white fragility, um, and, and books written about
it, about, oh, my feelings are hurt. Oh my
goodness. 00, somebody got mad at me. It's like,
yeah, Karen, you know, um,
I mean, I mean, that that's. BACK in the
90s, around the third wave of feminism, it was
very important for people, particularly women of color like
Bell Hooks and others, to develop intersectional feminism, right?
Because there was really back then and it's still
true today, a very true criticism of mainstream feminism
that it was very white supremacist,
very white, very white, white, white, white, and I,
and I. And, and. And something called benevolent racism.
So, uh, it's a, a great book called Nice
Racism. And so these are people who would never
think or say or do, black people shouldn't be
allowed to vote, would never use the N-word, nothing
like that, but they still Don't understand the privilege
they have just being by being white in this
country. So it's not that being white keeps you
from being poor, but being white. Helps you get
a job against a poor black person. So just,
it just gives you, it just in our, in
our system. The laws, the culture, the customs, it
just privileges whiteness and gives them the benefit of
the doubt and de-privileges blackness and does not give
them the benefit of the doubt. And, you know,
there's countless, countless, countless instances of that in books
and studies and, and reports. Again, I'm not a
politician, I'm not a sociologist or a historian. I
don't know what is to be done. I know
what I would like to do, I like to
wave a wand and put some people in jail,
but that's not going to happen and get some
other people out of jail, that's not going to
happen. So, um, For me, I We could afford
it, and someone said it's cheaper to house people
than to leave them unhoused. It's cheaper to feed
people than to leave them hungry, it's cheaper to
educate people than to leave them uneducated, but we
just won't, because again, going back to the Puritanism,
there's the deserving poor. So you, do you deserve.
Our, our largesse, do you deserve our good, you
know, hard earned money. I'm going back to the,
to the woman who did the experiment, had a
recording of a crying baby, and she called a
bunch of white churches and asked for formula, um,
and not one would help. Are you a member
of the church? I'm sorry, I have nothing for
you. Who helped the mosques, the imams, where, where,
where I'll meet you. I'll bring the baby, where,
where I meet you. So the hypocrisy of the
White nationalist brand of Christianity is very telling. It's
the the hypocrisy of the so-called pro-life people,
right? We don't have to. Yeah, I can't, I,
I can't, it's Mm mm.
Yeah, it's like just the other day I saw
a funny meme on the internet that was like
a picture of a newborn baby, and it was
something like, this is the precise moment in your
life that the pro-life people stop caring about you.
Yeah,
exactly, that, that, that's been pointed out hundreds of
times because it's so obvious, it's ongoing. They don't
even care to address it. They don't care what
it looks like. They think they're right. And they,
but they also they think Jesus is white. Right,
they prayed to a white Jesus, you know, and
You know, what are you going to do? Um,
AND yeah, you, you know, that that's why I
quite like some religions that developed, for example, in
Brazil after the Portuguese colonization and the very unfortunate
slavery of indigenous people and black people from Africa
because there's religions there like Candomble where you have
the very same saints that you have here in
Portugal that are presented as white. They have them
as black, and people here in Portugal sometimes get
really pissed.
But it's funny, it's funny. It'd be funny if
it wasn't so deadly. Yeah. Right? If it wasn't
so horrific, if, if the, if the actions taken
on behalf of white Jesus and, and, um, against
pagans and heathens, Yeah. Uh, WEREN'T so egregious and,
and ongoing, and then we're living now with the
consequences of it. Um, uh. Just the idea that
in Christianity, you are You're better and everyone else
is working, you have to bring them into Christ
and instead of, and so Christ's love, yeah, with
whips and slavery and rape. Oh, yeah, so the,
the, the hypocrisy among people who claim to be
Christians and who Ignore everything Jesus said. I, I,
it, it boggles my mind. I don't know. I,
if I think about it too much, I'm filled
with rage and despair. But I cannot live rage
and despair every day because it will kill you.
So I, that's why I do what I do
to help, to help. It's like, I feel like
I'm sometimes a, uh, Uh, battlefield nurse, right? I'm
here to help patch you up to go out
again tomorrow, uh, because pleasure is good for your
heart. It's good for your spirit. It's good for
your body. It's good for your breathing. It's good
for your sleep. It's good for your brain chemicals.
So, we have the ability within our bodies. We
don't need outside. Medicine, I mean, for people who
are not. Truly ill, your average person, um, we
take a pill or alcohol because we do not
turn to our bodies, but when we cultivate pleasure,
we cultivate erotic. Energy, deliberately, consensually, it is. 100%
healthy, 100% natural, no additives, right? Um, AND when
we learn to treat our body well and give
it pleasure, Our our conditioning rears up and tells
us to stop. We get scared, we get angry,
our body freezes up, and you have to, we
have to gentle ourselves, right? I'm in a room
alone. The fear is from somebody else. It was
put into me. I get to live in my
body. I get to have my body. I don't
have to share it, but I need to live
here, and I want to like where I live,
and I want to feel peaceful where I live.
And anybody can do that work. Anybody who wants
to can retrain their body and their responses from
unhealthy to healthy. Takes a long, takes a, takes
a while because depending on what A person has
experienced up till that moment. You have to unpack
a lot. Um, SOMETIMES it's just words, sometimes it's
words indeed, sometimes it's even worse than that. Um,
SO, but. Especially with support from the right professionals,
pleasure. It makes it, so I, I, so, OK,
if I'm being nice to my body, I can
stay here in my body while I look at
all the scary things in my mind. Hey, hey,
hey. So we, because our mind. And shot off.
Oh my gosh, what's gonna happen in the future?
Oh my gosh, the thing happened in the past.
Our mind is making us crazy that way. So,
what brings us into the present? Our body lives
in the present moment. My body cannot go to
the past. My body cannot go to the future.
My body has to be here now, now, now,
now, now, 300, you know, 60 seconds every minute
and however many seconds in a day. Our body
is always stuck right now. There is no future
to the body. There's no past, it's here. The
past lives in our muscle memory, it lives in
our brain, but our body is here. So, as
we are able to decide. To treat our body
nicely now, all the stuff will come up. It's
called a counter counterintuitive. No, stop, ah, you're, you're
lazy, oh, you're selfish, ah, you're slow, and just
say that's, that's this is, that's just a story.
It's just a story, not my story. Oh yeah,
it's grandma's story. Oh yeah, that's Uncle Jeff's story.
Oh yeah, that's not my story. Oh, this is
nice. It can take years to do it because
we have a lot, we're carrying around a lot,
but the joy and beauty of our natural ability
for erotic pleasure, it's very powerful. It is very,
it connects us to the world, it connects us
to each other. It creates the next generation, so
it is powerful. There are reasons why culture Puts
rules around sex. Ours that happened to be based
on foolishness. You know, it is appropriate to have
rules around the expression of sexuality. Of course, our
culture has really bad rules around it because of
our, what we think about pleasure, what we think
about women, what we think about the role of
sex and all the things, but an individual person,
if they wish, I can decide, and I did
decide years ago, I'm not playing that game. I'm
going to play my game. Now, Why was I
able to do that? I wasn't raised religiously. I
am a white person. I'm middle class. I have
education. I had more freedom to just go my
own way. My parents did not kick me out
of the house. My parents did not disown me
the way some people have disowned. So I'm that
level, quite lucky, right? So my trauma is, is
not as severe as other people's trauma. But it's
still, I still, and I was in a place
where one could go one's own way in a
very liberal town, in a very liberal place, in
a very liberal time. So I was very fortunate.
I sort of snuck through it. And so I've
never had any guilt about what I do. I've
never had any shame about what I do, um,
because I didn't get those messages, but other people
do, right? So, but anybody in the privacy of
their own room can do this work. Nobody has
to know. You don't have to tell anybody what
you're doing, but you can rewire your brain. You
can make connection and communion with your body because
at the end, if, you know, if you have
a regular sized arm, if you swing it down
low, There it is. The joy generator is right
there. So whether you believe in, in evolution or
God, clearly, the ability of the human person to
generate and cultivate and maintain erotic pleasure is very
important to people. Either God is, so, you know,
I think Eve was framed, but, you know, the
clitoris, its only job is pleasure, all it does.
So, since I believe in evolution, clearly, The human
sexual response cycle and the pleasure cycle was very
important to human evolution or would not have been
selected for. We would have a mating season. We
would, we would have sex. We'd have sex in
the summer and babies in the spring. And the
rest, the rest of the time, we wouldn't care,
right? But we're human animals are different that way,
right? Um, AND there's lots of anthropology about that.
So, even in a very difficult, painful, Reality The
hope, the truth of the matter is we still
live in our bodies. We are alone with them
at some point in any part of the day
where no one is bothering us. If we care
to, we can turn our attention to our physical
selves and start treating it nicely. 30 seconds here,
1 minute there, changing a thought, oh, nope, nope,
not thinking that today. So it takes a long
time to turn the Titanic because we would be
conditioned to go this direction and it takes a
long time to turn something so deeply entrenched, add
to that any kind of racial trauma. So you're,
you're, you're dealing with trauma, trauma lives in the
body. What kind of trauma depends on the person,
how much of it depends on the situation, but
everybody still has, because they have a body. Has
the capacity and the ability to change that narrative
by claiming their pleasure for themselves. And it is
scary and revolutionary, but it works because you live
there. I live here. I have, am I going
to sleep on my front porch or not? Am
I going to, am I going to be nice
to myself or not? Or am I going to
continue beating myself? Am I going to continue? Abusing
myself because that's what was always done to me.
Right. And it's very difficult and, and very courageous
to change that narrative in an individual person. So,
you know, get help, get support, get therapy, join
a support group, get educated as to the situation
and recognize that what you think is just true
in the way it is was handed to you,
built into the system, built into the, to the
laws, handed to you, but you don't have to
keep it anymore. You can, you can, you can
bundle it up and throw it in the trash
bin.
OK, so look, I'm starting to get worried about
the time we have left. So should we address
the comments that people left on
we can go a little over, yes, we can
redress comments. OK, OK,
OK, but let's address the comments then because, uh,
yeah, it's not just that you asked me to
do that, but I also think it's very important
to address the specific points that people made, so.
The first comment that I've got here says trying
to promote only the pleasure aspect without addressing the
risks doesn't seem like a neutral scientific discussion. What
this woman says based on her personal experience is
her own personal matter, but it poses risks to
underage girls. BECAUSE it promotes the idea that unrestricted
sex for pleasure is risk-free, and regulated sex carries
numerous risks, including the spread of diseases, psychological and
physical harm, and even physical assault. Furthermore, sex trafficking
is a thriving business whether for individuals or organized
criminal groups. It's not the rosy profession your job
suggests. Just because her personal experience with unrestricted sex
is positive doesn't mean it can be generalized. Sex
work as a profession should be regulated by the
state. OK, so this is more than one point,
so it is very common, so. Um, I have
never said this is, so this is their projection.
I have never said unrestricted. I've never said that
non-consensual behavior is OK. I have, of course, never
said that children should be subjected to adult sexuality.
So this has been happening long before women had,
long before women had the right to birth control
or to have sex without being married. Women and
girls, children and women have always been subjected to
trafficking, abuse. Uh, VIOLATION with the full support of
the church, of the police, of the state. So,
so that person is not, he, they, they're showing
their own prejudice. I have never said that sex
work is good for people. It can be good
for some people. For many other people, it is
a job of necessity and it's not so good
for them. But when our culture does not educate
women, offer them birth control, offer them childcare, what
can you do to support your family? So in
the end, uh, for some people, yes, it is
survival sex work. It's that or starve. And so
you're going to do what you got to do,
even if it's not what you would choose, and
even if it's not good for you. People work
in the mines, it's not good for them, but
they have to feed their families. People do all
kinds of demeaning, dangerous, harmful labor to feed their
families. But somehow sex work is the worst, right?
Because again, we think that women have to be
pure and that women don't have a sex, a
sex desire of their own. Um, SO, I've never
ever, the person is wrong if they presume. That
I've ever said unrestricted for anyone. It's good for
people. It's good for some people, but not everyone.
I, I recognize my class privilege. I recognize my
race privilege. I recognize my economic privilege. I recognize
my beauty privilege. So I don't talk a lot
about the terrible things that have happened to me
in porn because relative to some other people, not
that terrible and not that much because of me,
because of how I navigate the system and how,
and my beliefs, my belief system. If I've been
raised more traditionally around sexuality, I would have had
a completely different reaction to being in the sex
business. I would be wondering, you know, what's wrong?
I would, I would be agreeing with my training
that, am I a slut? Am I terrible? Am
I a bad person? And I know that those
ideas that a woman is terrible or bad because
sex is propaganda. And culture. It's not true and
real. The true and real is autonomy and agency.
Do I choose this or not? Many people do
not get to choose the sex they have. Many
people do not choose when or where they, it's
taken from them. It is forced upon them. No
one gets, no one, those men never get to,
to jail. I, fewer than 5% of, of rapists
ever see a courtroom or a jail because most
of it. So, um,
and that lack of choice, and I think it's
very important to mention specifically that that lack of
choice is experienced perhaps mostly by women in traditional
marriages.
Yes, of course, in, in those, in those, because
I, I, I am hit by my husband. I
go to my preacher, you forgive. Oh, you, you
know, he had a hard day, or you know
what, what did you do to provoke him? So
it's never the, it's called victim blaming. It's very
common and there's lots of books written on that
too. So, um, women are damned if they do
and damned if they don't, right? Um, IF I,
if we don't have sex, we're prudes, and if
we do have sex, we're sluts. Um, SO the
culture is not set up, uh, for, for a
healthy discussion around sexuality because people still hold these
ideas. So, to be clear, Sex work is not
for everyone. It has a lot of drawbacks. It
is not easy. It carries stigma. It will affect
you the rest of your life. You don't know
who you're going to meet in the future, who
will use this against you. It is not to
be taken lightly. Um, I don't believe, I believe,
uh, any sex worker wants to decriminalization. We do
not want legalization. The Nordic model is very problematic
and legalization is problematic decriminalization, meaning, plus, if you
really want to get to traffic, so we have
to decriminalize sex work so that women workers who
are seeing trafficking can go to the cops and
say, trafficking over here without worrying about getting arrested.
So trafficking is real. Um, AND, um, labor trafficking
is also very, even though it's always a sex
trafficking, sex trafficking, labor trafficking. Pulling people into false
pretenses, uh, into a country to make them house
slaves, to make them agricultural slaves, to make them
industrial slaves. So trafficking is not just about sexual
trafficking, although, of course, that is very real. Um,
BUT
yeah, curiously, when people learned back in 2022 that
most of the people who built the stadiums for
the World Cup in Qatar were slaves or at
least in some way forced into, they were doing
forced labor. I mean, no one was saying, oh,
we have to ban or we have to criminalize
construction.
So We must stop looking for logic and consistency
when it comes to ideas and rules about sex.
It is completely irrational because It The, the idea
is the completely irrational, and we, and we see
it all the time. Next, next comment.
OK, the next one is, and I just picked
these two because I I mean I, I, I
don't think that in the meanwhile anyone left another
negative comment there, so I have just this one
here, so the second one, and it says if
it is. An art of seduction and entertainment, something
different, but if she promotes that it is without
risks, then this is a clear fallacy. I'm only
talking here about the danger of polishing the image
in front of minors, as it is a profession
that is not fraught. Would not fraught with risk,
I guess he meant fraught with risks, but anyway,
and not about non-minors. The media reaches all ages,
including minors. If it is only about an art
of seduction and entertainment, then it's a different matter.
So
that's again, always, um, one thing about, uh, the
legal adult entertainment business, we don't use minors because
a. Why? It's illegal, we're going to go to
jail. So I don't want to go to jail.
18 years old is very young, right? So there's
no reason to go under 18 because 18 is
really, I mean, 18 is really young, technically legal,
but young in the head. Um, IT is, of
course, it has risks. First, life, 100% sexually transmitted,
100% lethal. Right. We're all going to, we, we
got here because of sex and we're all going
to die. So, our life is sexually, sexually transmitted
100% fatal, which I, I love them. I didn't
come up with it. Of course, there's risks. Every
profession, every job has its risks. Um, AND I
have never go back to my earliest speaking in
public budget. I've never downplayed the risks of being
an adult entertainment, socially, economically, physically, psychologically, spiritually. Of
course, there's risks when you do take on such
a heavily stigmatized job. So, again, um, That person
is wrong about their assessment of me. I, I've
always spoken about the risks and how I, people
say, oh, Nina, I want to make porn, and
I always say, going back 40 years now, 40
years, identify what do you think porn's going to
give you. What, what do you want out of
it? What, what do you think you want out
of it? Is there any other way out without
a camera that you can satisfy those needs? Because
the camera is forever. Always said that a camera
is forever. Even before the internet, you cannot take
it back. You cannot take it back. Are you
sure? And some people have said, I'm sure and
have lived to regret it because Impulse and other
people have moved through adult entertainment and left it
and just left it behind. They're not trying, they
just, you know what, that was my time of
life then. I'm not doing it anymore. Got my
hair to my normal color. So, before and after,
and then people like me who I knew I
was a lifer the first time I went to
a strip, I danced in a strip club, I
knew that this, this is my world, this is
my people, these were my people. Um, BUT, uh,
and there are a lot of people like me
in the business who are, um, very independent-minded, very
sexually open and active, and for them, this is
a good, this is actually a good job. It's
just like not everyone can be playing NFL. Not
everyone can do data analysis, not, not everyone can
be a doctor, but the ones who are good
at it do very well, and sex work is
the same. Um, YOU can be a bad sex
worker who doesn't do well and has a terrible
time at their job, and you can be a
successful one who likes what they do and manages
to make it work for them. The, the sex
is neutral. What do we bring to it? Right?
Do I bring my, what, what attitudes do I
bring to it? What trauma do I bring to
it? What beliefs do I bring to this work,
to this work? Any, any work you do, you're
going to bring yourself to it. Who are you
before you do this work? What are you bringing
to it? So, why are you doing it? What
do you think you're going to get out of
it? Um, HOW are you doing it? And what
are you doing, right? So, there's one woman I
know, she, um, very beautiful and made porn for
like 8 or 9 years, only girls. She was
offered thousands and thousands of dollars to do a
boy-girl. She said, nope, nope, nope, don't want to
do it. And she never did. One time they
offered her $10,000 to 1 boy-girl scene, she goes,
no. So, she always, and she's done, she's not
coming back. You know, she doesn't, she, she doesn't
have a website now that she's, nope, nope, done
with it. And she's, and she's doing something else
with her life now. She's not sorry she did
it, but now that's over. So, the individual person's
experience in adult entertainment of any kind is largely,
is half of them, and of course, the particular
situation, good boss, bad boss, you know, because sex
is stigmatized and because women are stigmatized. Sexually professional
women are double stigmatized and of course subject to
a lot of uh violence as well, because we
will not decriminalize, because we will not take seriously
violence against women, because we will not take seriously
sexual violence, um, but you cannot blame the women
for doing the best that they can with the
system that they find themselves in.
Right, yeah, and that's the thing, because I think
that at the end of the day what we
really should care about is that people, first of
all, that all workers are treated with dignity and
they have good salary, they are paid good salaries,
they have good benefits and all of that. All
workers independent of whatever kind of job they have.
Whatever kind of work they do, but also that
people have as much opportunity as possible because that
way, I mean, if someone gets into sex work
out of necessity and they don't like it, then
they have the chance to live it and to
find another kind of job.
Exactly, exactly.
Yeah, you see, it's easy. People just complicate with
their morality, you know. OK, great. So look, I
don't want to take much more of your time.
So, uh let's wrap up the interview here and
uh I, I look, thank you again for coming
on the show. It's always great to talk with
you. I always have lots of fun talking with
you. So thank you so much for doing this
again.
So maybe come back in the fall, September, October
or something. I'll read that. Send me, send me
the link to the article again, please. I'm so
sorry. I'm so sorry. I did not get to
it. I, uh,
no, no, no worries, no worries. We'll get to
that next time.
All right.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights, Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at lights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Mulleran, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingberrd, Arnaud Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forrest Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andre, Francis Forti Agnun, Sverggoo, and
Hal Herzognon, Michel Jonathan Labrarinth, John Yardston, and Samuel
Cerri, Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloane Wilson, Yasilla Dezara Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Punter DaRosmani, Charlotte Blis, Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alec Baka Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov,
Zal Adrian Yei Poltontin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward
Hall, Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolotti, Gabriel P
Scortez or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffyani Smith,
and Wisman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno,
Luke Lovai, Georgios Theophannus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David
Williams, Dio Costa, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw,
Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee
Junior. Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert
Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark
Kempel, Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson,
Benjamin Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael
Bensleyman. George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van
Goler, Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi,
Perpendicular, Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov,
Sean Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special
thanks to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank, Lucas
Stink, Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas
Trumbull, Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro, Al
Nick Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive
producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie.
Thank you for all.